* Instructions taken from https://1883magazine.com/how-to-play-blackjack-online-step-by-step-guide/

Step 1: Put down your bet

You can place a bet size of your option, each casino site will give you different amount ranging from INR 5 to INR 10,000. How much you want to wager is up to you.

 

Step 2: Get your cards dealt

Here you get 2 cards dealt to you. If you are playing the live dealer versions then you will be given your cards by the dealer and if it is the RNG version, then the computer will be giving you the cards.

Also, in this step the dealer will show one of his cards to you.

 

Step 3: Place a side bet

Now that you have been dealt your cards, you can place a side bet on things such as pairs, colors etc. This is a fantastic way to really increase your wins, you can get up to 35x your bet amount and can place small bets, if you place INR 10, you can win 350.

The most important side bet is called Insurance, it is offered only if the dealer’s first cards is an Ace, and half of your initial wager with a payout. If the dealer hits blackjack, then you get your insurance payout.

 

Step 4: Decide when you want to ‘hit’

You can press button to ‘hit’ and get more cards to get increase value of your hand. But if you cross 21 and go bust, you lose your money. You have to make sure that you have healthy hand and that if it cross values of 16 or 17, you should decide if you are willing to take a risk. This is the most important part of the online blackjack game and this part decides whether you end up winning or not.

 

Step 5: ‘Stand’

As you get ready to play your hand and you are satisfied with it, press “stand”. This way the dealer knows that this is your final hand and you will not be taking more cards from them and will play with this.

 

Step 6: Understand your opponent’s hand

After you take a literal stand on your cards, you should analyze your dealer’s hand. You can already see their first card and understand the value, now you should have a look at their entire hand. Keep in mind that all the casino sites do not hit if they reach a value of 16 or 17, so if you have a hand with a higher value, then you have a great chance of winning.

 

Step 7: The outcome

You will win if the value of the cards in your hand are higher than the dealers or is equal to 21. If the value of your hand is lower than the dealers or cross 21 than you will lose your wager to the dealer.
